# MODEL-TREATMENT-MACCULOPATHY

## Details
Python-based model to replicate a Visual Neuroscience experimental results to validate the treatment for macculopathy on a digital set-up.
*The folder 'CONDITIONS_FYP' contains outputs generated by the model and files you need to download to run it.

*Use 'CONDITIONS_FYP.py' within the 'CONDITIONS_FYP' folder if you want to run the model. Before running the model, you need to download 'pygame background 2.png' and 'Sloan.otf' within the same folder.
## Background
Age-related macular degeneration is a progressive disease of the central retina that causes a
preference for peripheral vision. The retina has two different types of light-sensitive cells, cones
and rods. Cones are mainly responsible for high visual acuity, a measure of the minimum size
of an object that can be resolved by the human eye. A moving image can be described in terms
of spatiotemporal frequency domains using a Fourier analysis. It gives essential information
about the spatial orientation of the moving stimuli, in terms of the sinusoidal wave that was
obtained via Fourier analysis, and the amplitude of the wave in terms of the spatiotemporal
frequency domains. Also, by adding a temporal modulation, harmonics are added in the
temporal domain. Harmonics are the single sinus waves composing the complex Fourier
sinusoidal wave. The range of visual acuity values in terms of the spatiotemporal frequency
domains is defined as the window of visibility (WOV). Recently, Patrick et al. (2019) tested the
effect of temporal modulations, contrast polarity reversal and subsampling, in peripheral visual
acuity using moving Landolt rings. Contrast polarity reversal improved peripheral
visual acuity, while speed decreased it. Therefore, a novel computational model was created
to test the effect of temporal modulations and speed in peripheral visual acuity and compare
the results to the peripheral visual acuity results obtained in Patrick et al. (2019). The results
showed that the temporal modulations added temporal harmonics. The contrast polarity
reversal condition was found to improve visual acuity at low speed and speed
had a negative effect on visual acuity at the same speeds. However, the model was not
adequate to model experimental conditions at static and higher speeds. Further studies should
address other factors affecting peripheral visual acuity to create a more accurate model of
peripheral visual acuity.
